---
layout: post
title: "The Ring"
excerpt: "Making sense of the Ring Cycle by Wagner"
date: 2021-02-21
---

15 hours of intense operatic musical drama. I always thought it seemed too much like hard work. It's funny how things change as you age. We all naturally become a little slower, a little more conservative, a little more introspective. And in reality, considering how much time I spend reading nonsense on my phone, immmersing myself in Wagner's dreamscapes is no great sacrifice.

So I know that I love the music - but do I understand the story?

In a nutshell, we have incompetent Gods and evil dwarfs (Nibelungs) and giants that become dragons and nymph like creatures (Rhinemaidens) and warrior goddesses (Valkyries) and mortal heroes (Walsungs). And an important sword that only a true hero can draw and mend and wield. And central to all is the ring of power, forged by Alberich the dwarf from the stolen gold of the Rhinemaidens and cursed to bring doom to whomsoever should own it.

This ring passes from Alberich to Wotan (the king of Gods) to Fafner (the giant turned dragon) to Siegfried (son of Siegmund and Sieglinde and grandson of Wotan). While Siegfried has the powerful sword Notung and the protection of his lover the Valkyrie Brunnhilde he controls the ring but the dwarfs are desperate to get the ring back and concoct potions and schemings to turn the hearts of Siegfried and Brunnhilde away from each other. Brunnhilde conspires to have Siegfried killed by Alberich's son Hagen and as he dies the spell of betrayal is broken and she realises her mistake. Love is all that matters. Brunnhilde rides her horse into Siegfried's funeral pyre and Hagen, in reaching desperately for the ring on Siegfried's outstretched hand, is swept away as the Rhine breaks its banks and floods the Gibichung plain. The Rhinemaidens reclaim the ring as the world goes up in flames, including the kingdom of the Gods Valhalla and we are left with nothingness but the plaintive Redemption theme that brings the masterpiece to a moving conclusion, and perhaps the dawn of a new, better world.

The tree chart below plots out the character groups and lineage...

<iframe width="100%" height="400" frameborder="0"
  src="https://observablehq.com/embed/@collierb/making-sense-of-the-ring-cycle?cells=chart"></iframe>

  